README.md, before:

![replay](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/8418700/174631473-a25f3eb1-3a97-468b-b574-6f50718db4dc.gif)

![](https://vsmarketplacebadge.apphb.com/version/hamedfathi.vscode-replay.svg)
![](https://vsmarketplacebadge.apphb.com/installs/hamedfathi.vscode-replay.svg)
![](https://vsmarketplacebadge.apphb.com/downloads/hamedfathi.vscode-replay.svg)
![](https://vsmarketplacebadge.apphb.com/rating/hamedfathi.vscode-replay.svg)

# [Replay](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=hamedfathi.vscode-replay)

Live coding is the best way for teaching and sharing your knowledge with others but as you know this is not easy! The idea behind writing this extension is to have live coding with a hundred percent accuracy and less stressful moments!

You can achieve the goal in two different ways:

1. Recording everything via macros.
2. Replay a pre-defined script.

For the first approach, it is fast but not accurate because you are recording your mistakes too, so, I am using the second one to nail it! 

## Features

You have full control of the script that you want to type:

* Move the cursor in any direction and number you want.
* Using predefined utility commands to simplify the typing process.
* Calling commands available in VS Code e.g Format the document by `editor.action.formatDocument`.
* Present your code perfectly with manual and automatic pause/resume cycle.

## Usage

![usage](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/8418700/177055779-f487f57d-98a3-463f-adfe-ac110901cf67.png)

For using this extension, first you should create a `.vscreplay` file. Anything in this file will auto-type exactly as you have like all characters, new lines, spaces, and so on but you can change the way of typing with the operational characters and commands that are provided before.

`replay` and `pause` commands just work when you have a `.vscreplay` file in your active editor.

For example a file like:

```
---
file: ./folder1/folder3/sample.js
line: 0
col: 0
clean: true
save: true
---
// What is Jest?
// Jest is a delightful JavaScript Testing Framework with a focus on simplicity.
// How should we write a test with Jest?
⭯5
⧉ delete-all
// (1) Install Jest using your favorite package manager:
// npm install --save-dev jest
// or
// yarn add --dev jest
⧉ waitn:3:Creating functionality	

// (2) Create a 'sum.js' file:
function sum(a, b) {⮒⮒}⇥
↑↑  return a + b;↓
module.exports = sum;
⧉ waitn:3:Creating test file	

// (3) Create a file named 'sum.test.js'. This will contain our actual test:
const sum = require('./sum');
test('adds 1 + 2 to equal 3', () => {⮒⮒});⇥
↑↑  expect(sum(1, 2)).toBe(3);↓
⧉execute:editor.action.formatDocument
⧉ waitn:3:Configuration

// (4) Add the following section to your 'package.json':
/*⮒*/↑
{
  "scripts": {
    "test": "jest"
  }
}↓↓
⧉ waitn:3:Running the test
// (5) Finally, run 'yarn test' or 'npm test' and Jest will print this message:
// PASS  ./sum.test.js
// ✓ adds 1 + 2 to equal 3 (5ms)
```

The sample file is also accessible from [here](https://github.com/HamedFathi/Replay/blob/main/sample/sample.vscreplay).

### Operational Characters

|  | Name | Description |
|:---------:|------|-------------|
| ↑         | up            | Move the cursor up one line |
| ↓         | down          | Move the cursor down one line |
| →         | right         | Move the cursor right one character |
| ←         | left          | Move the cursor left one character |
| ⤒         | first         | Move the cursor to the beginning of the first line |
| ⤓         | last          | Move the cursor to the beginning of the last line |
| ⇤        | begin         | Move the cursor to the beginning of the line |
| ⇥        | end           | Move the cursor to the end of the line |
|⮒         | newline       |  Adding a new line |
|⨷        |  remove-newline |  removng next new line      |
|⟿        |  whitespace     |  Adding a whitespace |
| ⌫       |  backspace      | Delete the character to the left of the cursor |
|⭯         | pause         | Pause the running process and ask user to continue via dialog |
|⧉        |  command        |  Adding some useful functionality to your script     |
|↯        |  boost        |  Sometimes you want to go to specific part of the content with maximum speed.<br/>All waits and pauses will cancel until this character in your content.<br/>You can use this character just once in whole of your script.     |

You can use a number after the below operational characters to write less repetitive code:

|  | Name | Description |
|:---------:|------|-------------|
| ↑2         | up-more        | Move the cursor up {N} lines |
| ↓10         | down-more      | Move the cursor down {N} lines |
| →5         | right-more     | Move the cursor right {N} characters |
| ←7         | left-more      | Move the cursor left {N} characters |
| ⮒3       | newline-more      | Adding {N} new lines |
|⟿4        | whitespace-more     |  Adding {N} whitespace |
| ⌫8       | backspace-more      | Delete {N} characters to the left of the cursor |
| ⭯6       | pause-more      | Pause for {N} seconds |

If you set `0` for the count, the extension automatically considers it as `1`.
### Commands

|  | Name | Description |
|:---------|------|------|
| ⧉ goto:1:5 |goto| go to the specified line and column, you can use `eol` for end of line |
| ⧉ delete:1 |delete-line|delete whole content of the line and line itself|
| ⧉ empty:1 |empty-line|delete whole content of the line but keep the line empty, move the cursor to the beginning of the line|
| ⧉ delete-after:1:5|delete-after| delete characters after the specified line and column, column {N} also deletes |
| ⧉ delete-before:1:5|delete-before| delete characters before the specified line and column, column {N} also deletes |
| ⧉ delete-area:1:5:2:9|delete-area| delete characters of the specified positions, you can use `eol` for end of line |
| ⧉ delete-all |delete-all|delete whole content|
| ⧉ execute:editor.action.formatDocument |execute|execute the specified command of VS Code.|
| ⧉ duplicate-line-after:1|duplicate-line-after| duplicate the line after it |
| ⧉ duplicate-line-before:1|duplicate-line-before| duplicate the line before it |
| ⧉ copy:1:5:2:14 |copy| copy the specified line and column, you can use `eol` for end of line |
| ⧉ cut:3:4:6:eol |cut| cut the specified line and column, you can use `eol` for end of line  |
| ⧉ paste:6:5:7:20 |paste| paste the specified line and column, you can use `eol` for end of line  |
| ⧉ waitn:10 <br/> ⧉ waitn:10:comment |waitn| waiting for {N} seconds with a comment if you set |
| ⧉ wait <br/> ⧉ wait:comment |wait| Showing a Yes/No dialog with a comment if you set |

### Settings

Each `.vscreplay` should have a `setting` on top of the `.vscreplay` file.

```
---
file: ./folder1/sample1.js
line: 0
col: 0
speed: 20
delay: 250
clean: true
next: ./sample2.vscreplay
save: true
info: true
---
...
```

| Name| Optional | Default | Description                                               |
|:----|:--------:|:-------:|-----------------------------------------------------------|    
|file | No       | -       | The target `file` that you want to type into it.          |
|line | Yes      | 0       | The starting `line` for typing.                           |
|col  | Yes      | 0       | The starting `column` for typing.                         | 
|speed| Yes      | 20      | The `speed` of typing. (1 <= speed <= 200)                | 
|delay| Yes      | 250     | The random `delay` between of typing. (0 <= speed <= 400) | 
|clean| Yes      | true    | It `Cleans` the target file's content if it is true     |
|next | Yes      | -       | The `next` .vscreplay file you want to call after finishing auto typing of this file.|  
|save | Yes      | true    | `Save` the final result automatically if it is true         |
|info | Yes      | true    | Show all `info` dialogs about pause times if it is true |

You should use the `relative` path for the `file` and `next` settings. The root for the starting point is your VS Code workspace folder.
### Snippets

![snippets](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/8418700/177030529-5a717407-166e-4916-988c-f5b1b6dc3e50.png)

Copy and paste the characters from this tutorial is not a good way! To work easier you can use the below snippets.

| Name                  | Snippet                      |
|-----------------------|------------------------------|
| up                    | replay-up                    |
| down                  | replay-down                  |
| right                 | replay-right                 |
| left                  | replay-left                  |
| first                 | replay-first                 |
| last                  | replay-last                  |
| begin                 | replay-begin                 |
| end                   | replay-end                   |
| newline               | replay-newline               |
| remove-newline        | replay-remove-newline        |
| whitespace            | replay-whitespace            |
| backspace             | replay-backspace             |
| pause                 | replay-pause                 |
| up-more               | replay-up-more               |
| down-more             | replay-down-more             |
| right-more            | replay-right-more            |
| left-more             | replay-left-more             |
| newline-more          | replay-newline-more          |
| whitespace-more       | replay-whitespace-more       |
| backspace-more        | replay-backspace-more        |
| pause-more            | replay-pause-more            |
| boost                 | replay-boost                 |
| command               | replay-command<br/>replay-command-arg1<br/>replay-command-arg2<br/>replay-command-arg3<br/>replay-command-arg4|
| goto                  | replay-command-goto                  |
| delete-line           | replay-command-delete-line           |
| empty-line            | replay-command-empty-line            |
| delete-after          | replay-command-delete-after          |
| delete-before         | replay-command-delete-before         |
| delete-area           | replay-command-delete-area           |
| delete-all            | replay-command-delete-all            |
| execute               | replay-command-execute               |
| duplicate-line-after  | replay-command-duplicate-line-after  |
| duplicate-line-before | replay-command-duplicate-line-before |
| copy                  | replay-command-copy                  |
| cut                   | replay-command-cut                   |
| paste                 | replay-command-paste                 |
| waitn                 | replay-command-waitn                 |
| wait                  | replay-command-wait                  |
| Setting               | replay-setting                       |

## Shortcuts

For manual control on auto typing you can use the following shortcuts:

| Action | Window/Linux   | Mac           |
|:-------|:--------------:|:-------------:|    
|Pause   |alt+ctrl+shift+p|alt+cmd+shift+p|
|Resume  |alt+ctrl+shift+r|alt+cmd+shift+r|

## Release Notes
### 1.0.0

The first release.

### 1.1.0

The boost operational character is added.

## Inspiration

I am heavily inspired by [auto-type](https://github.com/eee-c/auto-type) to implement this extension.

---

<a href="https://www.flaticon.com/free-icons/replay" title="replay icons">Replay icons created by Andrean Prabowo - Flaticon</a>

Commit message:

feat(OperationalChars): Double-Boost added.

README.md, after:

![replay](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/8418700/174631473-a25f3eb1-3a97-468b-b574-6f50718db4dc.gif)

![](https://vsmarketplacebadge.apphb.com/version/hamedfathi.vscode-replay.svg)
![](https://vsmarketplacebadge.apphb.com/installs/hamedfathi.vscode-replay.svg)
![](https://vsmarketplacebadge.apphb.com/downloads/hamedfathi.vscode-replay.svg)
![](https://vsmarketplacebadge.apphb.com/rating/hamedfathi.vscode-replay.svg)

# [Replay](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=hamedfathi.vscode-replay)

Live coding is the best way for teaching and sharing your knowledge with others but as you know this is not easy! The idea behind writing this extension is to have live coding with a hundred percent accuracy and less stressful moments!

You can achieve the goal in two different ways:

1. Recording everything via macros.
2. Replay a pre-defined script.

For the first approach, it is fast but not accurate because you are recording your mistakes too, so, I am using the second one to nail it! 

## Features

You have full control of the script that you want to type:

* Move the cursor in any direction and number you want.
* Using predefined utility commands to simplify the typing process.
* Calling commands available in VS Code e.g Format the document by `editor.action.formatDocument`.
* Present your code perfectly with manual and automatic pause/resume cycle.

## Usage

![usage](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/8418700/177055779-f487f57d-98a3-463f-adfe-ac110901cf67.png)

For using this extension, first you should create a `.vscreplay` file. Anything in this file will auto-type exactly as you have like all characters, new lines, spaces, and so on but you can change the way of typing with the operational characters and commands that are provided before.

`replay` and `pause` commands just work when you have a `.vscreplay` file in your active editor.

For example a file like:

```
---
file: ./folder1/folder3/sample.js
line: 0
col: 0
clean: true
save: true
---
// What is Jest?
// Jest is a delightful JavaScript Testing Framework with a focus on simplicity.
// How should we write a test with Jest?
⭯5
⧉ delete-all
// (1) Install Jest using your favorite package manager:
// npm install --save-dev jest
// or
// yarn add --dev jest
⧉ waitn:3:Creating functionality	

// (2) Create a 'sum.js' file:
function sum(a, b) {⮒⮒}⇥
↑↑  return a + b;↓
module.exports = sum;
⧉ waitn:3:Creating test file	

// (3) Create a file named 'sum.test.js'. This will contain our actual test:
const sum = require('./sum');
test('adds 1 + 2 to equal 3', () => {⮒⮒});⇥
↑↑  expect(sum(1, 2)).toBe(3);↓
⧉execute:editor.action.formatDocument
⧉ waitn:3:Configuration

// (4) Add the following section to your 'package.json':
/*⮒*/↑
{
  "scripts": {
    "test": "jest"
  }
}↓↓
⧉ waitn:3:Running the test
// (5) Finally, run 'yarn test' or 'npm test' and Jest will print this message:
// PASS  ./sum.test.js
// ✓ adds 1 + 2 to equal 3 (5ms)
```

The sample file is also accessible from [here](https://github.com/HamedFathi/Replay/blob/main/sample/sample.vscreplay).

### Operational Characters

|  | Name | Description |
|:---------:|------|-------------|
| ↑         | up            | Move the cursor up one line |
| ↓         | down          | Move the cursor down one line |
| →         | right         | Move the cursor right one character |
| ←         | left          | Move the cursor left one character |
| ⤒         | first         | Move the cursor to the beginning of the first line |
| ⤓         | last          | Move the cursor to the beginning of the last line |
| ⇤        | begin         | Move the cursor to the beginning of the line |
| ⇥        | end           | Move the cursor to the end of the line |
|⮒         | newline       |  Adding a new line |
|⨷        |  remove-newline |  removng next new line      |
|⟿        |  whitespace     |  Adding a whitespace |
| ⌫       |  backspace      | Delete the character to the left of the cursor |
|⭯         | pause         | Pause the running process and ask user to continue via dialog |
|⧉        |  command        |  Adding some useful functionality to your script     |
|↯        |  boost        |  Sometimes you want to go to specific part of the content with maximum speed.<br/>All waits and pauses will cancel until this character in your content.<br/>You can use this character just once in whole of your script.     |
|↯↯        |  double-boost        |  It works exactly the same as `boost` but with a pause. It means after reaching the `double boost` you should confirm for resume.|

You can use a number after the below operational characters to write less repetitive code:

|  | Name | Description |
|:---------:|------|-------------|
| ↑2         | up-more        | Move the cursor up {N} lines |
| ↓10         | down-more      | Move the cursor down {N} lines |
| →5         | right-more     | Move the cursor right {N} characters |
| ←7         | left-more      | Move the cursor left {N} characters |
| ⮒3       | newline-more      | Adding {N} new lines |
|⟿4        | whitespace-more     |  Adding {N} whitespace |
| ⌫8       | backspace-more      | Delete {N} characters to the left of the cursor |
| ⭯6       | pause-more      | Pause for {N} seconds |

If you set `0` for the count, the extension automatically considers it as `1`.
### Commands

|  | Name | Description |
|:---------|------|------|
| ⧉ goto:1:5 |goto| go to the specified line and column, you can use `eol` for end of line |
| ⧉ delete:1 |delete-line|delete whole content of the line and line itself|
| ⧉ empty:1 |empty-line|delete whole content of the line but keep the line empty, move the cursor to the beginning of the line|
| ⧉ delete-after:1:5|delete-after| delete characters after the specified line and column, column {N} also deletes |
| ⧉ delete-before:1:5|delete-before| delete characters before the specified line and column, column {N} also deletes |
| ⧉ delete-area:1:5:2:9|delete-area| delete characters of the specified positions, you can use `eol` for end of line |
| ⧉ delete-all |delete-all|delete whole content|
| ⧉ execute:editor.action.formatDocument |execute|execute the specified command of VS Code.|
| ⧉ duplicate-line-after:1|duplicate-line-after| duplicate the line after it |
| ⧉ duplicate-line-before:1|duplicate-line-before| duplicate the line before it |
| ⧉ copy:1:5:2:14 |copy| copy the specified line and column, you can use `eol` for end of line |
| ⧉ cut:3:4:6:eol |cut| cut the specified line and column, you can use `eol` for end of line  |
| ⧉ paste:6:5:7:20 |paste| paste the specified line and column, you can use `eol` for end of line  |
| ⧉ waitn:10 <br/> ⧉ waitn:10:comment |waitn| waiting for {N} seconds with a comment if you set |
| ⧉ wait <br/> ⧉ wait:comment |wait| Showing a Yes/No dialog with a comment if you set |

### Settings

Each `.vscreplay` should have a `setting` on top of the `.vscreplay` file.

```
---
file: ./folder1/sample1.js
line: 0
col: 0
speed: 20
delay: 250
clean: true
next: ./sample2.vscreplay
save: true
info: true
---
...
```

| Name| Optional | Default | Description                                               |
|:----|:--------:|:-------:|-----------------------------------------------------------|    
|file | No       | -       | The target `file` that you want to type into it.          |
|line | Yes      | 0       | The starting `line` for typing.                           |
|col  | Yes      | 0       | The starting `column` for typing.                         | 
|speed| Yes      | 20      | The `speed` of typing. (1 <= speed <= 200)                | 
|delay| Yes      | 250     | The random `delay` between of typing. (0 <= speed <= 400) | 
|clean| Yes      | true    | It `Cleans` the target file's content if it is true     |
|next | Yes      | -       | The `next` .vscreplay file you want to call after finishing auto typing of this file.|  
|save | Yes      | true    | `Save` the final result automatically if it is true         |
|info | Yes      | true    | Show all `info` dialogs about pause times if it is true |

You should use the `relative` path for the `file` and `next` settings. The root for the starting point is your VS Code workspace folder.
### Snippets

![snippets](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/8418700/177030529-5a717407-166e-4916-988c-f5b1b6dc3e50.png)

Copy and paste the characters from this tutorial is not a good way! To work easier you can use the below snippets.

| Name                  | Snippet                      |
|-----------------------|------------------------------|
| up                    | replay-up                    |
| down                  | replay-down                  |
| right                 | replay-right                 |
| left                  | replay-left                  |
| first                 | replay-first                 |
| last                  | replay-last                  |
| begin                 | replay-begin                 |
| end                   | replay-end                   |
| newline               | replay-newline               |
| remove-newline        | replay-remove-newline        |
| whitespace            | replay-whitespace            |
| backspace             | replay-backspace             |
| pause                 | replay-pause                 |
| up-more               | replay-up-more               |
| down-more             | replay-down-more             |
| right-more            | replay-right-more            |
| left-more             | replay-left-more             |
| newline-more          | replay-newline-more          |
| whitespace-more       | replay-whitespace-more       |
| backspace-more        | replay-backspace-more        |
| pause-more            | replay-pause-more            |
| boost                 | replay-boost                 |
| double-boost          | replay-double-boost          |
| command               | replay-command<br/>replay-command-arg1<br/>replay-command-arg2<br/>replay-command-arg3<br/>replay-command-arg4|
| goto                  | replay-command-goto                  |
| delete-line           | replay-command-delete-line           |
| empty-line            | replay-command-empty-line            |
| delete-after          | replay-command-delete-after          |
| delete-before         | replay-command-delete-before         |
| delete-area           | replay-command-delete-area           |
| delete-all            | replay-command-delete-all            |
| execute               | replay-command-execute               |
| duplicate-line-after  | replay-command-duplicate-line-after  |
| duplicate-line-before | replay-command-duplicate-line-before |
| copy                  | replay-command-copy                  |
| cut                   | replay-command-cut                   |
| paste                 | replay-command-paste                 |
| waitn                 | replay-command-waitn                 |
| wait                  | replay-command-wait                  |
| Setting               | replay-setting                       |

## Shortcuts

For manual control on auto typing you can use the following shortcuts:

| Action | Window/Linux   | Mac           |
|:-------|:--------------:|:-------------:|    
|Pause   |alt+ctrl+shift+p|alt+cmd+shift+p|
|Resume  |alt+ctrl+shift+r|alt+cmd+shift+r|

## Release Notes
### 1.0.0

The first release.

### 1.1.0

The boost operational character is added.

### 1.2.0

The double-boost operational character is added.

## Inspiration

I am heavily inspired by [auto-type](https://github.com/eee-c/auto-type) to implement this extension.

---

<a href="https://www.flaticon.com/free-icons/replay" title="replay icons">Replay icons created by Andrean Prabowo - Flaticon</a>
